Please review and update as needed (#2)
flupes/svplume: projects/project-anchors.md

---
title: Anchoring system
permalink: /projects/project-anchors/
layout: default
---

## Anchoring System

### Main Anchor

> Since 2002, our primary anchor has been a Spade A80 aluminum model. It weighs just 15 lbs but has a surface large enough to hold boats up to 34 ft. It quickly became our favorite: light enough that even Cécile can raise it, yet extremely reliable. Over the years it never once let us down. So when the time came to replace it in 2020, the choice was obvious: we went straight for the exact same model. It is set up with 120 ft of chain plus 150 ft of line, for a total of 270 ft.

Reviewer: Option-Q.
But should we say that we got a replacement for 50% because it started to have oxidation issue between the ballast and aluminum? Otherwise, people do not replace anchor: it cannot be an amazing anchor and have to be replaced after 15 year...

{% picture projects/project-anchor-main-spade.jpg --alt Spade A80 Anchor --img class="img-small"%}
<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">

>   Spade A80 main anchor of 15 lbs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Spade A80 main anchor (15 lbs).
```

</p>

### Storm Anchor

> In addition, we carry a storm anchor just in case, a M2 Mantus of 35 lbs. It holds boats up to 30 ft in winds greater than 50 kn. It is easy to store as it breaks down into small parts. A single bolt is used for disassembly and storage. Ours is securely fixed to the cabin sole, yet easily removable, as shown in the pictures below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, we carry a storm anchor just in case, a M2 Mantus of 35 lbs. It is recommended for boats up to 30 ft in winds greater than 50 knt!. It is easy to store as it breaks down into small parts. A single bolt is used for disassembly and storage. Ours is securely fixed to the cabin sole, yet easily removable, as shown in the pictures below.
```
